---
title: Back on Android
date: 2014-05-17 00:00:00 Z
layout: post
---

I got an iPhone 4s some time late last year. I wanted the experience. Then
development purpose - if I eventually get to it. For a couple of months,
the phone was my secondary device; I used it occasionally for the apps.
Then, for some two months now, I have had it as my only device. It has been
a great experience. But now I have had to switch back to Android.

This is not one of the Android is better than iPhone posts. I do have my
preferred platforms, technologies and tools but I am not a fanboy. The post
is an objective view of why I had to switch back.

The iPhone is a solid device. You only have to hold it to be convinced.
Great camera! (My new Moto G camera is poor by the way). And the iPhone
just works. The app experience is superb. You hardly ever encounter the
popular ARN (Application Not Responding) you get on Android. For a regular
user (which unfortunately I am not), it is the perfect phone. It gives you
just what you want. Distracting options are removed wherever possible. For
example, the camera doesn't have a **settings** button. So things like
adjusting white balance or setting photo resolution are out of it, leaving
you fewer distractions to fiddle with. But even this strong point of
simplicity links to the other factors that makes the iPhone too limiting
for me.

## Android - everything as an app

On Android, everything is an app. Your camera, SMS, keyboard, dialer, even
power button. This means you can easily change core things on the phone.
That gives you a different level of flexibility - like  using the awesome
[Swype](http://swype.com) or [Swiftkey](http://www.swiftkey.net/) keyboard
for example.

Sometimes you may have more than one of these apps performing the same
function. That is where **default apps** come in. If besides my Android's
native web browser, I have Chrome, Firefox and Opera mini, I can set
 Firefox as my default web browser so that every time I click a link within
an app, it opens with Firefox. It is just the same way you can set your
default web browser or media player on PC (at least Windows). On the iPhone
I don't have that. Every link I open (well except in Gmail) opens in
Safari. I can't set another browser as my default.

In general, Android offers a more flexible and open development platform to
allow creative play with core device features and a whole different level
of customization. Themes, launchers, live wallpapers and amazing taskers
are a result of this. [IFTTT for Android](
https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.ifttt.ifttt), for
example, can consequently access things like phone calls, Wifi and SMS for
triggers; ringtone, volume and wallpaper for actions.

## Intents

Android allows apps share data via intents. From my gallery for example, I
can share a picture to any other image related app (remember, everything on
Android is an app) - IM apps (WhatsApp, Hangouts), social networking apps
(Twitter, Facebook), email clients, communication apps (Bluetooth, NFC),
etc. It works that way across every app. The Twitter app, as another
example, can share a tweet to email, SMS, Tumblr, etc.

This makes app use and sharing very easy. Once done writing this on
[Simplenote](http://simplenote.com) on my Android, I can easily send to the
Gmail app in a click and post to this blog (via [Tinypress](
http://tinypress.co)). This would be a long one on the iPhone.

## Sharing, Sync, iTunes

I don't like that I can't **easily** share things from my phone with
others. "Easily" here means I want to share with someone beside me and not
through the internet - not using Dropbox or BBM or Whatsapp or whatever.
Simple bluetooth. To non-iOS devices. And it is pretty much the same with
receiving as well.

I don't like that I can't easily "install" an app on my iPhone directly
from the iTunes website. I would have imagined a login, download button
on an app page and a push of the app to my device. I shouldn't have to
install iTunes for this. Same with transferring music or videos. I
literally messed up and overwrote the stuffs on my phone the second time I
used the iTunes to sync music and videos to the device.

Android's visible and accessibile file system makes it easy to manage files
and content in a familiar way. If I want to copy to or from the device, I
just plug in to my computer and know where to look. Strike that. In truth,
to copy to, I just need to dump my media files in any folder on the device.
It shouldn't be any complex than that.

Those are the core limitations for me. There are many other tiny details
here and there. Like the non-standard cord/port of the iPhone, a better
notification system on Android, Android's Back button, missing photo
details (time/date) on the iPhone, among others. These things seem
irrelevant to many average users. I have heard iPhone users reply me "why
not email it", "send it via BBM" when I complained about sharing photos via
bluetooth. Just yesterday, I mentioned the friction in transfering songs
from my laptop to the iPhone to a friend and he went, "Do people still do
that? Why not just use Spotify?". To someone like me however, device
flexibility is of great importance.

My new droid is a Moto G. Lovely, cheap phone. It runs on Android's latest
OS (Kitkat - 4.4.2) which besides the improved experience (that's a whole
different discussion) answers most of Android's cons. Performance for
example. This has greatly improved. Everything runs smoothly and I am yet
to see the famours ANR. UI/UX is another. It is interesting to see that
most apps now follow the [standard design pattern](
https://developer.android.com/design/patterns/index.html), offering a
consistent and good design and experience.

I should get back at discovering new interesting apps already. Or probably
try build something little when I have the free time.